Absence seizure: Also called the less common Petit Mal Seizure, these seizures typically cause a short period of “blanking out” or staring into space. Like other kinds of seizures, they are caused by abnormal activity in a person’s brain. [Epilepsy Foundation, Mayo Clinic]
Abulia: A pathological inability to make decisions or take action.
Acute Stress Disorder: Also known as Acute Stress Reaction and sometimes called Shock, this is a psychological condition caused by experiencing or witnessing a terrifying or traumatic event, such as a severe automobile accident, violent crime, or death. It should not be confused with the unrelated circulatory condition of shock, or the concept of shock value. Acute stress reaction may develop into PTSD if untreated. [PsychCentral, VA.gov]
Adjustment Disorders: Adjustment Disorder is defined as a maladaptive response to a normal, psychosocial stressor that has occurred in the past three months, and is not caused by another mental illness.
Adverse effects of medication NOS
Age-related Cognitive Decline: (now known as Dementia and Neurocognitive Decline)
Agoraphobia: This is a condition where an individual doesn’t wish to go to places or face situations where they could become exposed to panic attacks.
Akiltism: [Note from MHM Staff ] We were unable to find any solid information about this disorder. Our best guess is that this disorder was once used as a catch-all for unknown diagnoses, it seems to be based on the word “akilter” meaning off-kilter or unbalanced. Our further assumption is that it was dropped as more understanding was gained and because of the extreme stigma it carried. [Merriam-Webster]
Alcohol Addiction: According to the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, approximately 17.6 million adults abuse alcohol or are physically dependent on it.
Alzheimer’s Disease: Approximately 19 million Americans have a family member who suffers from Alzheimer’s disease. There are seven stages of Alzheimer’s …
Amnesia: (also known as Amnestic Disorder) a person suffering from memory amnesia lost parts or all of his memory. It’s not your plain everyday forgetfulness, instead, it is the complete eradication of any or all events and relations.
Amphetamine Addiction: Amphetamines are some of the most addictive drugs in the world. The best way to overcome an amphetamine addiction is to get help from a professional treatment center.
Anorexia Nervosa: This is an eating disorder. The symptoms of Anorexia tend to be that the sufferer will eat very little, or not eat at all for a number of days, for fear of gaining weight.
Anterograde Amnesia: The loss of ability to create new memories after an amnesia event. The inability to recall recent past events, but retaining long-term memories from before the event.
Antisocial personality disorder: (also known as Sociopathy)  “A psychiatric condition in which a person manipulates, exploits or violates the rights of others … this behavior is often criminal.
Anxiety Disorder: (Also known as Generalized Anxiety Disorder) A condition in which people experience a constant state of high anxiety, which does not seem to be attributed to any particular cause. Learn more about Anxiety Treatment, Therapy and Counseling here.
Anxiolytic related disorders: A number of different disorders that result from the abuse of a class of medications known as sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics (SHA).
Asperger’s Syndrome: (now part of Autism Spectrum Disorder, ASD) Asperger’s is characterized by social impairment, communication difficulties, and restrictive, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior.
Attention Deficit Disorder: (Also known as ADD) Children with this condition generally have challenges paying attention to or concentrating on a given task. They also tend to move constantly and are impulsive.
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder: (Also known as ADHD) This is a neurodevelopmental disorder, meaning that the disorder is present at the time of birth. There are 3 types of ADHD:
Inattentive type
Hyperactive/Impulsive type
Combination type
Autism Spectrum Disorder: (also known as Autism)  Autism is classified as one of the pervasive developmental disorders of the brain. It is not a disease. People with classical autism show three types of symptoms …
Autophagia: A disorder where a person compelled to inflict pain upon oneself by biting and/or eating portions of their own body.
Avoidant Personality Disorder: Marked social inhibition, feelings of inadequacy, and extremely sensitive to criticism.
Starting With B
Barbiturate related disorders: The use of Barbiturates can lead to some of the following: Addiction to stimulants like amphetamines or methamphetamines; antisocial personality disorder; anxiety, bipolar and conduct disorders; depression, insomnia, and schizophrenia.
Benzodiazepine-related disorders: Benzodiazepines are a class of drugs prescribed due to their effectiveness in treating anxiety, and insomnia. Addiction can occur. Withdrawal symptoms include trouble sleeping, feelings of depression, and sweating.
Bereavement: A period of mourning after a loss, especially after the death of a loved one. There is no right way to experience bereavement.
Bibliomania: A passionate enthusiasm for collecting and possessing books.
Binge Eating Disorder: Binge eating disorder is an illness which resembles bulimia nervosa. It differs from bulimia because its sufferers do not purge their bodies of excess food.
Bipolar disorder (also known as Manic Depression, includes Bipolar I and Bipolar II):
Bipolar I:
Bipolar II:
Body Dysmorphic Disorder: This is a mental disorder where an individual can’t stop thinking about perceived defects or flaws in their appearance.
Borderline intellectual functioning: Also known as borderline mental retardation. A person has below average cognitive ability (IQ of 70-85), but not as severe as an intellectual disability (IQ below 70).
Borderline Personality Disorder:  A psychological illness involving unstable moods, behavior, and relationships.
Breathing-Related Sleep Disorder: Characterized by abnormal breathing during sleep. Symptoms include snoring, apneas or daytime sleepiness.
Brief Psychotic Disorder: A psychosis that lasts less than one week that is a reaction to severe stress.
Bruxism: A condition in which you grind, gnash or clench your teeth.
Bulimia Nervosa: A type of eating disorder where a person frequently eats a large amount of food then tries to prevent weight gain with self-induced vomiting.
Starting With C
The Link Between Childhood Trauma, PTSD, and Alcoholism: A young woman with a drinking problem as a result of childhood trauma.

Caffeine Addiction
Cannabis Addiction
Catatonic disorder
Catatonic schizophrenia
Childhood amnesia
Childhood Disintegrative Disorder (now part of Autism Spectrum Disorder)
Childhood Onset Fluency Disorder (formerly known as Stuttering)
Circadian Rhythm Disorders
Claustrophobia
Cocaine related disorders
Communication disorder
Conduct Disorder
Conversion Disorder
Cotard delusion
Cyclothymia (also known as Cyclothymic Disorder)
Starting With D
Delerium
Delusional Disorder
dementia (now known as dementia)
Dependent Personality Disorder (also known as Asthenic Personality Disorder)
Depersonalization disorder (now known as Depersonalization / Derealization Disorder)
Depression (also known as Major Depressive Disorder)
Depressive personality disorder
Derealization disorder (now known as Depersonalization / Derealization Disorder)
Dermotillomania
Desynchronosis
Developmental coordination disorder
Diogenes Syndrome
Disorder of written expression
Dispareunia
Dissocial Personality Disorder
Dissociative Amnesia
Dissociative Fugue
Dissociative Identity Disorder (formerly known as Multiple Personality Disorder)
Down syndrome
Dyslexia
Dyspareunia
Dysthymia (now known as Persistent Depressive Disorder)
Starting With E
Eating disorder NOS
Ekbom’s Syndrome (Delusional Parasitosis)
Emotionally unstable personality disorder
Encopresis
Enuresis (bedwetting)
Erotomania
Exhibitionistic Disorder
Expressive language disorder
Starting With F
Factitious Disorder
Female Sexual Disorders
Fetishistic Disorder
Folie à deux
Fregoli delusion
Frotteuristic Disorder
Fugue State
Starting With G
Ganser syndrome
Gambling Addiction
Gender Dysphoria (formerly known as Gender Identity Disorder)
Generalized Anxiety Disorder
General adaptation syndrome
Grandiose delusions
Starting With H
Hallucinogen Addiction
Haltlose personality disorder
Histrionic Personality Disorder
Primary hypersomnia
Huntington’s Disease
Hypoactive sexual desire disorder
Hypochondriasis
Hypomania
Hyperkinetic syndrome
Hypersomnia
Hysteria
Starting With I
Impulse control disorder
Impulse control disorder NOS
Inhalant Addiction
Insomnia
Intellectual Development Disorder
Intermittent Explosive Disorder
Starting With J
Joubert syndrome
Starting With K
Kleptomania
Korsakoff’s syndrome
Starting With L
Lacunar amnesia
Language Disorder
Learning Disorders
Starting With M
Major Depression (also known as Major Depressive Disorder)
Major depressive disorder
Male Sexual Disorders
Malingering
Mathematics disorder
Medication-related disorder
Melancholia
Mental Retardation (now known as Intellectual Development Disorder)
Misophonia
Morbid jealousy
Multiple Personality Disorder (now known as Dissociative Identity Disorder)
Munchausen Syndrome
Munchausen by Proxy
Starting With N
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
Narcolepsy
Neglect of child
Neurocognitive Disorder (formerly known as Dementia)
Neuroleptic-related disorder
Nightmare Disorder
Non Rapid Eye Movement
Starting With O
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
Obsessive-Compulsive Personality Disorder (also known as Anankastic Personality Disorder)
Oneirophrenia
Onychophagia
Opioid Addiction
Oppositional Defiant Disorder
Orthorexia (ON)
Starting With P
Pain disorder
Panic attacks
Panic Disorder
Paranoid Personality Disorder
Parkinson’s Disease
Partner relational problem
Passive-aggressive personality disorder
Pathological gambling
Pedophilic Disorder
Perfectionism
Persecutory delusion
Persistent Depressive Disorder (also known as Dysthymia)
Personality change due to a general medical condition
Personality disorder
Pervasive developmental disorder (PDD)
Phencyclidine related disorder
Phobic disorder
Phonological disorder
Physical abuse
Pica
Polysubstance related disorder
Postpartum Depression
Post-traumatic embitterment disorder (PTED)
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Premature ejaculation
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Psychogenic amnesia
Psychological factor affecting medical condition
Psychoneurotic personality disorder
Psychotic disorder, not otherwise specified
Pyromania
Starting With Q
There Are Currently No Disorders Starting With Q
Starting With R
Reactive Attachment Disorder
Reading disorder
Recurrent brief depression
Relational disorder
REM Sleep Behavior Disorder
Restless Leg Syndrome
Retrograde amnesia
Retts Disorder (now part of Autism Spectrum Disorder)
Rumination syndrome
Starting With S
Sadistic personality disorder
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizoid Personality Disorder
Schizophrenia
Schizophreniform disorder
Schizotypal Personality Disorder
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Addiction
Selective Mutism
Self-defeating personality disorder
Separation Anxiety Disorder
Sexual Disorders Female
Sexual Disorders Male
Sexual Addiction
Sexual Masochism Disorder
Sexual Sadism Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder
Sleep Arousal Disorders
Sleep Paralysis
Sleep Terror Disorder (now part of Nightmare Disorder)
Social Anxiety Disorder
Somatization Disorder
Specific Phobias
Stendhal syndrome
Stereotypic movement disorder
Stimulant Addiction
Stuttering (now known as Childhood Onset Fluency Disorder)
Substance related disorder
Starting With T
Tardive dyskinesia
Tobacco Addiction
Tourettes Syndrome
Transient tic disorder
Transient global amnesia
Transvestic Disorder
Trichotillomania
